# Artifacts 2 & 3: Advanced Programming Concepts: Narratives

##### The second and third artifacts are from my final project in the CS 340 Advanced Programming Concepts. These artifacts require Mongo to be running locally. It also requires the JSON file named stocks to be imported as “market” with a collection named “stocks.” I wrote these programs in June of 2020. The first program is server.py and connects to the Mongo database that is running locally and accepting connections on port 27017. The second program is client.py. It is the user interface that allows the user to communicate with the Mongo database. 

##### For the algorithms and data structure, I selected this project because I never finished all of its features. This project requires several programs to make everything work. There are a bunch of moving parts here, and I believe that this showcases my ability to keep track of multiple items. I added the ability for the user to download information from the server and save it to a file. When the user is given the option to save the information, the program will only take a “y” or “n” in either upper or lower case as an answer. I learned how to create loops that do not allow the user to escape them until it receives the correct input. The program will add the extension of “.txt” if the user did not enter it. According to (Deepa, et al., 2018) “improper user input is one of the fundamental security concerns in any web application.”

##### Originally, I was forced to develop this project in Python 2.7. I had an issue where the program would crash while trying to get user input. There is an issue with the input function within Python version 2, and after researching the fix I found that using the raw input function would solve my problem. However, in Python version 3 raw input function was renamed to input. I changed my original code to accommodate this update.  Unfortunately, I was never able to set up an environment to test Python version 3. I believe I would have been better served to create a function to check what version of Python the program was running under and then make the decision as to what version of the input function to use. I believe this would have given this project backward compatibility, but I did not write that in. For algorithms and data structure I enabled client.py to save information to a file, and placed error correction to not allow the user to input invalid data.

##### For the database artifact, I added the ability for the user to query the server looking for stocks that fall within a defined range and sorted the top 10 stocks based on “Return on Investment” in descending order. My goal was to only return the names of the companies that fit these criteria and not the entire JSON entry for the stock. This information is transmitted to the client and then reconstructed inside of a list.

##### Originally there was a section of this code that did not work. I was not able to poll specific details about a stock. I found my problem and correct the code. I cleaned up a significant amount of the menus, consolidated other menus, and made this project easier to read. I corrected an issue that would allow the user to enter a stock ticker that was not capitalized. I also added the ability for the user to advance up or down a list of stock “details”. I had a difficult time getting the details section to work. I learned a good bit about manipulating JSON files into strings and arrays. I had a hard time getting the data to display back to the client the way I wanted, but in the end, everything works. This project was enhanced by giving the programs the ability to poll the database for specific information about a stock, and the ability to look for stocks within a certain range based on “Return on Investment” criteria.
 
##### References
###### Deepa, G., Thilagam, P. S., Khan, F. A., Praseed, A., & Palsetia, N. (2018, Febuary). Black-box detection of XQuery injection and parameter tampering vulnerabilities in web applications. International Journal of Information Securit, pp. p105-120.

