# Artifact One Narrative: Software Design and Engineering

#### The first artifact is from my final project in CS 410: Reverse Software engineering. I wrote the C version of this program in June of 2020, and it was reversed engineered from a compiled legacy executable. The program allows a user to login and makes change student grades.  The program is riddled with design flaws, but it works exactly like the legacy program it was reversed engineered from.
#### I chose this artifact because it is riddled with problems. When I first wrote this program, I had a list of things that I wanted to change, but could not because that is not what the assignment required.  The original assignment asked to write the legacy program in C, and that is what I did. I made several artifact improvements. One of the things that I wanted to showcase was my attention to detail.  I rewrote the program in Python, and addressed some of the items from my “list of things I wanted to change.” It bothered me that the names and the grades did not align.  This kind of detail is important to me.  I also did not like how I was forced to edit every student on the list to make a change. I added a menu to allow the user to edit one student at a time.  The student’s name or grade can be changed.  The changes are then saved to a file.  The file will be reloaded on the program restart.  Security is important in a program that is handling sensitive data such as this and a hashed password is also important.  Currently, the program only has two users.  Gregg with a password of “123”, and “Rusty” with a password of “456”.  The passwords are secure using an MD5 hash. According to (Mehrabani & Eshghi, 2012).“It gets a string with an arbitrary length as input and produces a message with 128-bit length called message-digest or fingerprint as output.”

#### I feel that I have met the course objectives.  I feel that I went above the objectives with all the enhancements that I made.  One of the suggestions was to Transfer a project into a different language.  I feel that I did that when I rewrote the program in Python.    I learned a significant amount in this project.  I learned to read and write data to and from files.  I was able to use this data to make decisions such as how many spaces should have between the name and grades on the menu.
##### I enjoy writing code. I find that the C languages are a bit of a challenge for me.  I enjoy writing in Python because of its flow.  I want to become more efficient with C and C++. I know the only way to get better at programming is to program.   I did learn how to write to a file.  I do not recall if I did that in my Python class or not, but I imagine that I will be referencing documentation that I have already been taught from here on out.

